[ADD] events: lead generation rules (17) (#9432)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/events/lead_generation_rules.rst

=====================
Lead generation rules
=====================

> Odoo *Events* makes it possible for users to generate leads from their event attendees, based on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo *Events* allows users to generate leads from their event attendees, based on a
```

predetermined criteria, known as *Lead Generation Rules*. These rules can be customized in a number

> of different ways, in order to suit unique needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of different ways, to suit unique needs.
```

Lead generation page
====================

> In order to create lead generation rules for an event, users first must navigate to the *Lead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create lead generation rules for an event, users must first navigate to the *Lead
```

Generation Rule* page inside of the Odoo *Events* application. To do so, navigate to
:menuselection:`Events app --> Configuration --> Lead Generation`.

On the :guilabel:`Lead Generation Rule` page, Odoo displays all the current lead generation rules
that have been created for the database, in a standard list view.

.. image:: lead_generation_rules/lead-generation-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Lead Generation page in the Odoo Events application.

From the :guilabel:`Lead Generation Rule` page, users can view pertinent information related to each
existing lead generation rule, such as :guilabel:`Rule Name`, :guilabel:`When` the rule is
configured to be triggered, any :guilabel:`Event Categories` it is associated with, the

> :guilabel:`Event` it is applied to, and the associating :guilabel:`Company` related to it (if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Event` it is applied to, and the :guilabel:`Company` related to it (if
```

applicable).

Create lead generation rules
============================

To create a lead generation rule for an event, navigate to the :guilabel:`Lead Generation Rule` page
in the Odoo *Events* application (:menuselection:`Events app --> Configuration --> Lead
Generation`), then click :guilabel:`New`.

Doing so reveals a blank :guilabel:`Lead Generation Rule` form.

.. image:: lead_generation_rules/lead-generation-rule-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A standard Lead Generation Rule form in the Odoo Events application.

First, start by entering a :guilabel:`Rule Name`.

Then, designate a lead creation option for the lead generation rule in the :guilabel:`Create` field.
The options are: :guilabel:`Per Attendee` or :guilabel:`Per Order`.

If :guilabel:`Per Attendee` is selected, a lead is created for each attendee (B2C). If
:guilabel:`Per Order` is selected, a single lead is created per ticket batch/sales order (B2B).

Next, designate *when* the lead should be created in the :guilabel:`When` field. The options are:

> - :guilabel:`Attendees are created`: leads that follow the configurations of the rule are created
>   when an attendee record for an event is created.
> - :guilabel:`Attendees are registered`: leads that follow the configurations of the rule are created
>   when the attendee officially registers, either manually or automatically.
> - :guilabel:`Attendees attended`: leads that follow the configurations of the rule are created when
>   the attendee's attendance is officially confirmed, and the registration is set to *Done*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Attendees are created`: leads are created
  when an attendee record for an event is created.
- :guilabel:`Attendees are registered`: leads are created
  when the attendee officially registers, either manually or automatically.
- :guilabel:`Attendees attended`: leads are created when
  the attendee's attendance is officially confirmed, and the registration is set to *Done*.
```
Just trying to make these a bit less wordy, but if I changed the context too much, feel free to disregard

For Any Of These Events section
-------------------------------

In the :guilabel:`For Any Of These Events` section of the :guilabel:`Lead Generation Rule` form that
follows, there are a few options to configure.

> First, users have the option to filter the attendees to include those who have attended specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, users can filter the attendees to include those who have attended specific
```

event categories in the :guilabel:`Event Categories` drop-down field. Multiple :guilabel:`Event
Categories` can be selected.

If no :guilabel:`Event Categories` are selected, no event category restriction is applied to the
lead generation rule.

Next, in the :guilabel:`Company` field, users can choose to restrict the triggering of this lead
generation rule to events belonging to a specific company (if working in a multi-company
environment). If left blank, no company restriction is applied.

> Lastly, in the :guilabel:`Event` field, choose to filer the attendees to include those of a specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, in the :guilabel:`Event` field, choose to filter the attendees to include those of a specific
```

event, via the drop-down menu. If left blank, no event restriction is applied.

If The Attendees Meet These Conditions section
----------------------------------------------

In the :guilabel:`If The Attendees Meet These Conditions` section of the :guilabel:`Lead Generation
Rule` form, users can configure specific criteria for their rule.

By default, this field is set to :guilabel:`Match all records` of attendees in the database.

To add specific criteria, click the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add condition` button. Or, click the
:icon:`fa-caret-right` :guilabel:`(right arrow)` icon to the left of :guilabel:`Match all records`.

> Clicking the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add condition` button reveals a pre-configured condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add condition` button reveals a preconfigured condition
```
I believe that the consensus was preconfigured _without_ a hyphen (the linter has not been updated yet)

line, as an example, which can be modified.

Clicking the :icon:`fa-caret-right` :guilabel:`(right arrow)` icon to the left of :guilabel:`Match
all records` reveals a :guilabel:`New Rule` link. When :guilabel:`New Rule` is clicked, the same

> pre-configured condition line that appears when the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add condition` button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
preconfigured condition line that appears when the :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Add condition` button
```

- :icon:`fa-trash` :guilabel:`(trash can) Delete node` icon: deletes the condition line entirely.

Users can see the number of attendee records that fall into that configured conditional rule(s) by
looking at the :guilabel:`record(s)` located at the bottom of the :guilabel:`If The Attendees Meet
These Conditions` section.

Lead Default Values section
---------------------------

At the bottom of the :guilabel:`Lead Generation Rule` form, there is the :guilabel:`Lead Default
Values` section.

First, designate the :guilabel:`Lead Type` to be generated from this rule, either :guilabel:`Lead`
or :guilabel:`Opportunity`.

Then, if desired, choose to automatically assign the created leads to a specific sales team in the
:guilabel:`Sales Team` field.

Next, decide if the generated leads (or opportunities) should automatically be assigned to a
specific salesperson in the :guilabel:`Salesperson` field.

And, lastly, choose to automatically add specific tags to the created leads (or opportunities)
generated from the rule. Multiple tags can be addeed, if desired.

Sample rule: social media attendees
===================================

> The following is an realistic example of how a company may choose to configure a lead generation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a realistic example of how a company may choose to configure a lead generation
```

rule for an event.

> In this sample, the company is looking to generate leads for every attendee that bought a *General
> Admission* ticket to a specific event (*Design Fair Los Angeles*), who initially clicked a link for
> tickets from a social media post, and purchased their ticket online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this sample, the company is looking to generate leads for every attendee who bought a *General
Admission* ticket to a specific event (*Design Fair Los Angeles*), initially clicked a link for
tickets from a social media post, and purchased their ticket online.
```

for that event. In this case, the company is only concerned with :guilabel:`General Admission`
tickets.

Then, because the company wants to be even more specific about attendees who purchased a
:guilabel:`General Admission` ticket, click the :icon:`fa-sitemap` :guilabel:`(site map) Add branch`
icon to reveal two new branch condition lines.

In the first of the two branch condition lines, select :guilabel:`Source` in the first field, choose
:guilabel:`is in` in the second field, and add the corresponding social media outlet options in the
third field. In this case, it was :guilabel:`Facebook`, :guilabel:`Twitter`, and
:guilabel:`LinkedIn`.

In the second of the two branch condition lines, select :guilabel:`Sales Order`
:icon:`fa-angle-right` :guilabel:`Online payment` in the first field. Then, select :guilabel:`is`
in the second field. Lastly, select :guilabel:`set` in the third field.

.. image:: lead_generation_rules/attendees-meet-conditions-section.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The 'If Attendees Meet Conditions' section of social media attendees sample rule.

Finally, in the :guilabel:`Lead Default Values` section, the company sets the :guilabel:`Lead Type`

> to :guilabel:`Lead`. Then, since they have a designated sales team who solely focuses on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to :guilabel:`Lead`. Then, since they have a designated sales team that solely focuses on
```

or :guilabel:`Opportunity`.

Then, if desired, choose to automatically assign the created leads to a specific sales team in the
:guilabel:`Sales Team` field.

Next, decide if the generated leads (or opportunities) should automatically be assigned to a
specific salesperson in the :guilabel:`Salesperson` field.

And, lastly, choose to automatically add specific tags to the created leads (or opportunities)
generated from the rule. Multiple tags can be addeed, if desired.

Sample rule: social media attendees
===================================

The following is a realistic example of how a company may choose to configure a lead generation rule
for an event.

In this sample, the company is looking to generate leads for every attendee who bought a *General
Admission* ticket to a specific event (*Design Fair Los Angeles*), initially clicked a link for
tickets from a social media post, and purchased their ticket online.

First, the user would enter a memorable name related to the purpose of the rule in the
:guilabel:`Rule Name` field, like `Social Media Attendees`. Then, select :guilabel:`Per Attendee` in

> the :guilabel:`Create` field, and :guilabel:`Attendees are created` in the :guilabel:`When` field.

Reviewer 2: @ksc-odoo I haven't fully reviewed yet, but this part stuck out to me on quick look.

I'm not sure there's a relevant use case here to create a rule like this since `Attendees` by `Source` is more of a reporting filter which can be done right from the **Attendees** tab in the _Events_ app.

To give readers a working success model, consider covering how we internally set up LGRs for the Events team— the rules we have set up are pretty in-depth and really cover the functionality quite nicely ^^

Please remind me I can show you what I mean, if you like!
